:toc: macro

= RFC 6: Transaction incentives

:icons: font
:numbered:
toc::[]

== Goal
The goal of this proposal is to reduce on-chain cost and complexity related to
transaction submitter responsibilities, reduce the cost of operating a client,
and provide tools to punish free-riders not operating their nodes properly.

== Overview
The scheme assumes that the majority of the group is honest and is interested in
helping DAO to eliminate free-riders from the network while getting nothing in
return. The group will vote to mark someone as ineligible for rewards if they
consistently do not participate in off-chain heartbeats or if they skip their
responsibilities for submitting on-chain transactions. 

A real-world analogy would be team members discussing one of them is not
contributing to the work at all so the entire team must do the work of that
free-rider and have the team report this fact to the manager.

All the responsibilities that do not have to be done by a group will be
delegated to opt-in maintainers and third parties to reduce the cost of
operating a node.

== In depth

=== Transaction types

On-chain transactions can be divided into three types:

==== Group member transactions

Transactions that can only be submitted by group members, given that only the
group members have the knowledge about input parameters. For example,
<<submit-dkg-result,submitting DKG result transaction>> for ECDSA wallet or
submitting relay entry transaction for the random beacon.

==== Maintainer transactions

Transactions that can be submitted by anyone, usually submitted often and
mostly belonging to a happy path. This type of transaction should never lead
to slashing. For example, <<maintainer-incentives,submit sweep proof or submit
redemption proof transaction>> for tMEWC. 

==== Misbehavior notifier transactions

Transactions that can be submitted by anyone, submitted rarely or never, and
usually leading to slashing. For example, <<challenge-dkg-result, challenge
DKG result>> for ECDSA wallet or <<report-fraud, report fraud>> transaction for
tMEWC.

==== Submission Order

For the first group of transactions, we will not enforce the order on-chain and
we will expect off-chain clients to respect the submission order. If some client
skipped their round, other clients can vote to mark the inactive client as
ineligible for rewards. To disincentivize frontrunning, we will only reimburse
ETH costs, and no additional reward will be allocated.

The responsibility of executing the second group of transactions should be
delegated to willing maintainers. Given that the preparation of the input data
in some cases is complicated and may require access to the Meowcoin chain, the
maintainer functionality should be built-in into the client and activated in the
configuration. Eventually, we may decide to use networks like Gelato but given
that the ECSDSA wallet could be slashed on the redemption proof timeout, such
functionality should also be implemented in the client so that the client can
protect the stake if required. Last but not least, Gelato Polywrap resolver
allowing assembling more complicated transaction inputs is not yet available and
we do not want to block the release on this functionality. Maintainers will be
reimbursed in ETH. Maintainers may receive an additional reward for performing
their work but this needs to happen outside of the transactions they are
executing.

Transactions belonging to the third type can be executed by anyone and all
off-chain clients will be responsible for submitting them. No ETH will be
reimbursed and T coming from slashed stakes will be the only optional reward.
No submission order will be maintained and all clients will try to report
misbehavior at the same time. It is more important to keep the network healthy
and free from misbehavior than to optimize costs.

==== Group member transaction incentives

[[submit-dkg-result]]
===== Submit + approve DKG result

No submission order will be enforced on-chain and the transaction submitter will
have ETH cost reimbursed. To disincentivize front-running, no additional reward
will be released by this transaction. Off-chain clients should have an
informal agreement to follow the submission order based on
`hash(new_group_pubkey) % group_size`.
The submission order will be unenforceable on-chain but every off-chain client
will be defaultly configured to follow the order anyway.

The first member responsible for submitting the DKG result is a member with
index `hash(new_group_pubkey) % group_size`. If that member did not submit the
result,  `(hash(new_group_pubkey) % group_size) + 1` becomes responsible next.
Group members who were inactive and skipped their responsibility might be
reported by the wallet as ones who <<report-heartbeat-failed,failed the heartbeat>>
and marked as ineligible for rewards.

For example, if `hash(new_group_pubkey) % group_size = 62`, `group_size = 64`,
and member `9` submitted DKG result, members with indexes
`{62, 63, 64, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8}` might be marked as ineligible for
rewards. Inactive group members are determined once the result is submitted and
accepted by the chain.

Given that the DKG result submission process consists of two transactions:
submitting the result and approving the result after the challenge period ends,
in order for the operator to be considered active, they must submit **both**
transactions.

[[report-heartbeat-failed]]
===== Report heartbeat failed

A wallet should periodically execute off-chain heartbeats and report inactive
operators responsible for potential heartbeat failures. The majority of wallet
members need to come together and sign a message with their private ECDSA
operator keys. The message should contain the list of inactive operators and
nonce ensuring uniqueness. The same mechanism can be used for reporting
operators who failed their duty of submitting DKG result. 

No submission order will be enforced on-chain for the heartbeat failure
transaction and the transaction submitter will have ETH cost reimbursed. To
disincentivize front-running, no additional reward will be released by this
transaction. Off-chain clients should have an informal agreement to follow the
submission order: the operator submitting this TX is the first active one.

When reporting heartbeat failure as a result of DKG result submission
inactivity, the group must decide if the cost of the transaction is worth it.
That is, if some operator was marked as inactive a minute ago, it does not make
sense to mark it as inactive and ineligible for rewards one more time.

IMPORTANT: There should be no token incentives for calling this function by
the group. The only incentive should be their goodwill to save some rewards by
DAO. Moreover, in the case of off-chain heartbeat failure, clients are trying to
avoid slashing in the future. Marking operators as ineligible for rewards should
not increase the rewards of other group members! Rewards saved on inactive
operators marked as ineligible should return back to the DAO. The DAO should do
something else with those extra tokens other than increase rewards. We do not
want to incentivize voting for your own salary.

[[maintainer-incentives]]
==== Maintainer transaction incentives

For the first release, the role of maintainers will belong to the willing
off-chain clients approved by DAO or council. Every client will have maintainer
functionality built-in and enabled in the configuration file.

We will implement a simple reimbursement contract for maintainers proxying calls
to Bridge functions. Only approved maintainers should be able to use the proxy
contract. Maintainers are expected to follow round-robin distribution of work
but the order is not going to be enforced on-chain. DAO/council will have the
functionality of removing maintainers not performing their duties.
DAO/council may decide to distribute additional T rewards for maintainers. This
functionality should be supported by the `MaintainerProxy` contract.

Eventually, the role of maintainers can be delegated to another network such as
Gelato.

```
┌────────────────────────────────────────┐   calls  ┌─────────────────────────┐
|             MaintainerProxy            |─────────▶|          Bridge         |
└────────────────────────────────────────┘          └─────────────────────────┘  
| submitSweeProof() onlyMaintainer       |          | submitSweepProof()      | 
| submitRedemptionProof() onlyMaintainer |          | submitRedemptionProof() | 
| createNewWallet() onlyMaintainer       |          | createNewWallet()       | 
└────────────────────────────────────────┘          └─────────────────────────┘
```

===== Submit sweep proof

ETH reimbursed, no additional reward to disincentivize front-running between
maintainers.

===== Submit redemption proof

ETH reimbursed, no additional reward to disincentivize front-running between
maintainers.

===== Start DKG

ETH reimbursed, no additional reward to disincentivize front-running between
maintainers. 

===== Report DKG timeout

ETH reimbursed, no additional reward to disincentivize front-running between
maintainers.

==== Misbehavior notifier transaction incentives

All transactions in this section must be supported by the off-chain client. We
are not concerned about front-running. Front-running may happen and it is even
desirable to some extent because these transactions protect the health of the
network.

[[challenge-dkg-result]]
===== Challenge DKG result

No ETH cost reimbursed. Called exceptionally, ideally never. Incentivized by T
from slashed stakes.

===== Notify redemption timeout

No ETH cost reimbursed. Called exceptionally, ideally never. Incentivized by T
from slashed stakes.

[[report-fraud]]
===== Report fraud

No ETH cost reimbursed. Called exceptionally, ideally never. Incentivized by T
from slashed stakes.

=== ETH pool

DAO needs to fund ETH pool that will be used for reimbursements. The pool should
probably be a separate contract. The pool needs to protect against malicious
miner-operators by placing a governable gas price ceiling. It should be possible
to withdraw unspent ETH in case we decide to replace Maintainer incentives with
something else (for example Gelato) or decide to add more functions there
(for example, the SPV relay updates). 

=== Enabling rewards again

Operators who were marked as ineligible for rewards will have to execute a
transaction to mark them as eligible for rewards again, once the ineligibility
time passes.

Given that it is the DAO who is giving the rewards, the DAO or some council
appointed by the DAO should always have the right to enable rewards again for
the given operator even if the timeout did not pass. This right should be used
rarely - if ever - and is reserved only for the case of a bug in the off-chain
client code.